.TH DT 1 "2026" "The-JLC-Project" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dt \- print the current date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dt
.RB [ --iso-time | --us-time ]
.RB [ -ds= \fIchar\fR ]
.RB [ --help ]
.RB [ -ts=\fIchar\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dt
prints the current local date in one of several formats.
.PP
By default, it prints the date in DD/MM/YYYY format (day/month/year).
With
.B --iso-time
or
.B -iso
, it prints in YYYY-MM-DD format.
With
.B --us-time
or
.B -us
, it prints in MM/DD/YYYY format.
The date separator can be customized with
.B -ds=\fIchar\fR
or
.B --date-separator=\fIchar\fR
(default is '/').
.B -ts=\fIchar\fR
or
.B --time-separator=\fIchar\fR
can be used to set the time separator in the output (default is ':').

.PP
It reads the system clock via
.BR time (2)
and
.BR localtime (3),
then formats the result with
.BR printf (3).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --iso-time, -iso
Print date in ISO format (YYYY-MM-DD).
.TP
.B --us-time, -us
Print date in US format (MM/DD/YYYY).
.TP
.B -ds=\fIchar\fR, --date-separator=\fIchar\fR
Set the date separator to \fIchar\fR (default '/').
.TP
.B -ts=\fIchar\fR, --time-separator=\fIchar\fR
Set the time separator to \fIchar\fR (default ':').
.TP
.B --help
Display usage information and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Invalid arguments.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Print the current date in default format:
.B dt
.PP
Output example:
.EX
21/03/2026
.EE
.TP
Print in ISO format:
.B dt --iso-time
.PP
Output example:
.EX
2026-03-21
.EE
.TP
Print in US format with custom separator:
.B dt --us-time -ds=.
.PP
Output example:
.EX
03.21.2026
.EE
.TP
Display help:
.B dt --help
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1)
.SH AUTHORS
The-JLC-Project contributors.
